(upbeat music)
Burt Goldman considers himself a lucky man.
Unlike many, he recognized his path early in life
after an encounter with a mystic
while serving with the military in Korea.
This meeting led to a lifelong commitment
of understanding the essence of conscious intentions
as he studied with Yogananda as a young man,
became the top Silva Method instructor
and later, struck out on his own
to share his secrets of life.
His method, called quantum jumping,
is designed for manifesting our greatest potentials;
his life is living proof of it.
(upbeat music)
We are in your home,
surrounded by all this absolutely beautiful artwork;
this fresh, alive, colorful, spontaneous artwork
that you started creating at the age of 80,
or 78, right, on your painting?
I was 78 when I painted,
the first time I picked up a paintbrush.
78, and then you started doing photography,
which actually, these--
No, photography came first.
Oh, photography came first?
You do an amazing job of both.
I mean, this is really quite fascinating,
and you ended up in museums even.
Even though you say you had no ability
in either one up to this point in your life.
None.
Zippo.
And the reason we're talking to you is,
we're going to find out what you tapped into
to allow this expression to come forward,
but first, I'd like to go backward.
I'd like to go back to your past and the days of,
well, you were in the military in Korea,
so this must have been during the Korean War, I assume?
No, no, actually, when I was in Korea,
no one ever heard the name.
I had no idea where Korea was,
and neither did any of the 10,000 other GIs who were
on the boat with me.
Really?
We had no idea where Korea, this was in 1946.
Oh, okay, so it was a few years prior.
Long before the Korean War.
Not that long--
A few years.
But before.
And Korea had, we had just liberated Korea.
Actually, I was one of those guys who were waiting
for the invasion of Japan,
which, thankfully we didn't do.
Because if we had, chances are, I wouldn't be
here right now talking to you.
The war ended, and then I shipped to Korea,
and I spent some time there,
and a very good friend of mine happened to be Korean;
American, an American GI.
An American Korean over there,
a GI over there with you in Korea, okay.
That's when I was in Korea, but that was in 1946.
'46, okay.
So, you're there, and something happened, though.
You didn't necessarily have the journey
you thought you were taking.
A different journey began in Korea for you.
Well, the journey began,
now at the time, I was like 19,
and like most 19 year olds, especially in a foreign place,
excited about everything, but not knowing anything,
totally ignorant.
My friend, his name was Kim,
and that's how I addressed him,
and Kim and I would travel through the town.
We were at a place called, well,
we were right on the 38th parallel.
Yung Dung Po, I think comes to name,
but that might have been the place where we landed,
I'm not sure, but we were just outside of Seoul,
and most of the streets were dirt,
and we were in an old school that the Japanese
had used as barracks; before that it was a Korean school.
That's where I was stationed, and we used to take walks
through the town, and everything was unique, and it was new.
For somebody who had never left the United States,
never left, I was born in Brooklyn, but then went to L.A.,
and never left L.A. after that.
It was something.
Well, we wound up in this particular party's home
that my friend Kim had met,
and their name was also Kim.
That's not unusual, Kim is a very common name in Korea.
He would sit and talk to them,
and I would just look around the house,
not touching anything, but they had an organ there.
One day, when he was talking to them,
I was wandering around the backyard,
and finally, I walked in, I got bored,
and I sat down at the organ and I picked out
Auld Lang Syne, one of the only tunes that I knew.
(hums "Auld Lang Syne") That one.
Well, the two Kims jumped up
and were grinning at me,
and my friend Kim was looking at them and looking at me,
and I'm looking at him, "What's going on?"
Well, it turned out that at the time,
Auld Lang Syne, the tune was, not the words of course,
but the tune was the national anthem of Korea.
What are the odds of that?
A jillion to one, that was the only song I knew.
And then we became great friends.
All of a sudden, I was part of the family, too.
We used to go there, whenever we had time off,
we'd run over to the Kims', and one day I was there,
and I had a headache, and I told my friend Kim,
I said, "Let's go."
He said, "What's the problem?"
I said, "I've got a terrible headache."
So he tells mystic Kim, we'll call him mystic Kim
so you can tell, and my friend Kim.
He tells mystic Kim that I've got a headache,
so mystic Kim says something and he walks over to me,
and he does something like this around my head.
And almost magically, the headache disappeared.
I said, "What did he do?"
And he started explaining.
I said, "What is that, tell me more about that."
After that, our conversations all became metaphysical,
through the translation of my friend.
I got kind of interested, and,
long story, I don't want to,
this story could take all day, so,
the next thing I knew, I was in Hawaii,
I was sent to Hawaii.
In Hawaii, now this is in 1946.
Hawaii was different.
I was stationed at Schofield Barracks,
which is still there, by the way,
and we used to take nice long walks in the pineapple fields,
and one day, I met somebody who was called a Huna,
I didn't know what a Huna was.
The conversation was similar to the ones
that I had with mystic Kim, through a translator,
and I got a little bit more interested in it.
That was, kind of started me on the journey.
It was a seed that was planted, but it was just there.
I paid no attention to it.
Ultimately, got out of the army,
and went back, was discharged,
went back to Los Angeles, and a friend of mine,
Ben Denoff, who at the time was a concert violinist,
he was a child prodigy, actually,
but when I knew him, he wasn't a prodigy anymore,
he kind of lost it, but he was a concert violinist,
and he was playing for the studios,
and he was involved with meditation.
I didn't know what meditation was,
I mean, I'd heard about it, but I really didn't
know too much about it.
He said, "I'd like you to meet my guru."
I said, "Your guru, you've got a guru?"
He said, "Yeah, you ever hear of Paramahansa Yogananda?"
I said, "No."
He said, "Well, you gotta come."
I said, "Where is it?"
He says, "Eagle Rock."
I didn't even know where Eagle Rock was;
it's by Washington, okay, let's go.
And I met Paramahansa Yogananda,
and was very, very impressed.
I thought, "Well, let me look into this.
"It goes along with what I learned in Korea and Hawaii."
I learned how to meditate, and I took to it.
I enjoyed meditation,
and I was totally taken by Paramahansa Yogananda,
I mean, to be in his presence was like being
in the presence of a, of a super human being.
I never felt that way in the presence of any other person
I'd ever met in my life, before or since.
I was kind of,
you might say an apprentice monk at the time.
I was going to become, join the,
I was already in the organization,
the Self-Realization Organization,
and I was going to join it, and become,
dedicate my life to meditation and,
as some of my friends in the organization were doing.
One of my friends would meditate two hours a day.
And now, mind you,
you're still only, what, 19, 20, 21?
At this time, I was about 21.
21, okay.
21.
And I'd just gotten married.
Then my wife became pregnant, and now I'm concerned.
Do I want a family?
Well, I've already got a family, I've got a wife--
You've got one on the way.
And one on the way, so Yogananda had a big meeting
with about 100 of us at Mt. Washington.
My wife and Ben's wife were friends,
and they stayed together, and Ben and I went
to Mt. Washington to sit at the feet of the master.
We get there at eight o'clock.
Swamis, they don't know too much from time.
They don't really care about time.
Well, they spend a lot of time
in the other dimensions in meditation.
(laughter)
Really.
So, we're there eight o'clock, nine o'clock,
ten o'clock, eleven o'clock, twelve o'clock!
Pretty soon, it's two o'clock in the morning.
Oh, he was really tardy!
(claps hands together)
The master walks in, Yogananda-gi walks in.
Nobody left; there were over 100 people there,
not one person left, two o'clock in the morning.
We were all anointed,
and I spoke with him personally for a bit,
and he kind of anointed me with sandalwood.
I go back home, and it's now four o'clock in the morning,
and my wife, I don't have to tell you how she feels now:
"You got to make a choice here."
I thought, "Yeah, I really do have to make a choice.
"Something's got to happen.
"Do I want to leave my family and become a monk?
"I can't leave my family, I'm just having a baby!"
So I left the organization, but I was still involved.
Then, this was in the early '50s, late '40s, early '50s,
and then Yogananda left this world in a spectacular way,
that you can probably read about, I won't go into that--
Google it.
Yeah, you can Google the end, his demise,
The Yogananda's death, yes.
It's worth Googling, actually.
But I kept the meditation part of it.
I knew about meditation, you know.
I had been meditating the whole time I was there.
And I still visited the Lake Shrine,
which is in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles,
which is to this day,
the calmest place I know of on the planet.
I've never been,
and I've heard so many people talk about it.
I've got to go there.
If you get back towards Los Angeles, you should stop.
What is the name of the shrine?
The Lake Shrine.
Lake Shrine, okay.
It's off Sunset Blvd, just before you get to Malibu.
Okay.
In Pacific, everybody there would
be able to direct you.
Some of Gandhi's ashes are there, as well,
not that you're going to visit Gandhi's ashes,
but they're there.
At any rate, I started meditating after that,
and then I started teaching.
Ben and I started something.
We had both left the organization
after Yogananda had died,
had left, whatever, and we started some,
Ben had a terrible case of stage fright,
and he wanted to know if I knew anything about
how to get rid of it, and I said,
"Yeah, you know, I've learned a couple of things."
I'd been involved with hypnosis by then.
So I showed him a few things to do,
and he said, "I know a lot of people.
"We can sell this."
I said, "Sell what?"
He said, "What you just did!"
I said, "Well, I didn't do anything."
He said, "Yeah, you did, you showed me
"how to get rid of stage fright.
"Can you write it down?"
I said, "Yeah, I can write it."
So I wrote a little pamphlet, and we called it
Mental Dynamics: The Key to Nerve Control.
Now, what year was this?
This was in 1951.
1951, okay.
1951.
Now, what do we do with it?
We're both kids!
I mean a 21 year old today is not a kid,
but then, it was a different world.
We were, even though I had been in the army,
I had been all over Asia there,
I'd been in Kwajalein, Okinawa and Tokyo,
but we were still ignorant about a lot of things.
So, what do, how do we sell it?
We put an ad in Popular Science Magazine
and Popular Mechanics and we're selling
the key to nerve control for $10,
which was a lot of money, then.
The first order we get is from New Zealand,
or someplace like that.
Well, boy were we thrilled.
Oh, we got an order from outside the United States!
We kept it up for a few months,
and then we'd do something else, and we left it.
Then, years later, I heard
about Silva Mind Control,
and I thought, "Mind control,
"that's similar to nerve control."
"I wonder what that's all about?"
So I went to a lecture by a Silva instructor,
and I heard him talk, and I said, "That's interesting."
Is it meditation, well, no, it's not.
Well, let me say, one thing leads to another, and I,
I took the course, and I recognized everything in the course
that I had learned before, and that I was actually teaching.
A lot of the stuff came out of Rosicrucianism stuff
that I was familiar with also.
I'm leaving 95% out of the story, obviously--
Or we would need 12 hours of tape.
You'd need 12 hours just to get out of Korea!
But, just maybe drop a little bit in
on the Rosicrucianism studies.
Where'd you pick that up?
Well, that was all by mail, that was in the '50s.
In the '50s, okay.
I was a hypnotist also, at that time.
Okay, and so now you've bumped into
Silva Mind Control.
Now I bumped into Silva, and I took the course,
and I'm thinking, "I know more than this guy."
So I joined the organization,
and at the time, I was also a hot shot salesman,
and I said, "This is not..."
I called a friend of mine, I said,
"You've got to get into this Silva."
He says, "Why?"
I said, "Because whatever you say about it is true!
"You can't lie, you can't exaggerate."
So he comes to one of the seminars, and he says,
"Can you back up all that stuff?"
I said, "Yeah, look at all these testimonials."
Anyway, one thing leads to another,
and about six months after I joined the organization
they've got like 1,000 instructors,
and guess who's their top instructor?
I'm guessing it'd be you.
(laughter)
Everybody's got classes of five and ten,
and I've got classes of 150 and 200.
As a matter of fact, the hotel that I was using,
the Holiday Inn in Van Nuys, which doesn't exist anymore
because of the Northridge earthquake,
it only held 200, so I had to shun people away,
and I was doing classes twice a month.
At any rate, I worked with Silva for awhile,
and Jose asked me to write a book,
or I told him I was going to write a book
with a friend of mine called Better and Better,
which was about the Silva class which we did,
and that's when I discovered I could write.
I said, "Wow."
Now, where I got writing from is an interesting aside,
if you'll allow it.
Please!
A friend of mine, a guy named Willy Lee, Chinese guy,
not that it matters whether he's Chinese or not,
he had a wrought iron furniture,
outdoor furniture place
in a large building, a 20,000 square foot building,
and I was visiting him one day,
and I'm sitting in his office.
Now, his building is the big box with an office.
That's it, but it's big, 20,000 square feet.
And we're sitting, and we're talking, and I said,
"How much rent do you pay here?"
And he said, "Oh, I don't pay rent."
He said, "I own the building."
I said, "Oh, you own the building?"
He says, "Yeah."
I said, "You bought it?"
He says, "No, I built it."
"Oh," I says. "You had it built?"
"I know, but you had it built."
"No, no, no, no, I built it."
I said, "What do you mean you built it.
"You didn't build it, you hired people."
"Damn it," he says. "Burt, don't you understand English?
"I built it!"
I says, "Yeah, but you,"
He says, "You see the pile of bricks?"
There was a little pile of bricks in the corner.
I said, "Yeah."
He says, "Get to 'em."
So I get to the bricks, I said, "What now?"
He says, "Put one on top of the other."
So I put one on top of the other, and I look at him.
He says, "That's all I did.
"You're looking at the whole thing,
"this building is just one brick at a time.
"I built it."
I said, "You actually built this whole building?"
"I did the brick work, I did the cement work,
"I did the electrical work, and I did the plumbing.
"The only thing I didn't do was the roof."
He says, "I did everything else."
Well, I never forgot that story,
and when I started writing,
I started writing and I told my friend Ove Sehested,
who wrote the book Better and Better with me,
"You know, I'm not a writer."
And then I started thinking,
"Wait a minute, I can write a sentence.
"Anybody can write a sentence."
And then I thought of Willy Lee.
What is a book?
A book is a bunch of chapters.
What's a chapter?
A bunch of paragraphs.
What's a paragraph?
A couple of sentences, can you write a sentence?
Sure, if you can write a sentence, you can write a book,
all you have to do is keep writing it and change it.
[Voiceover and Burt] One brick at a time, yeah.
So that's when I started writing, through that Willy Lee.
One other thing, and then we'll leave,
has absolutely nothing to do with anything.
Okay, go for it.
Another time I was over at Willy's, he says,
"Come on, I've got a mouse, and I'm going to catch it."
I said, "Well, where is he?"
He said, "I don't know, but I'm going to find out."
I said, "How do you find out where a mouse lives?"
He says, "Come by in the morning, I'll show you."
I come by in the morning, I meet him outside of his office.
He's on Curacao Street in East L.A.,
and he says, "Okay, look."
He opens up the door, and he had spread flour
over the entire floor, and you could see mouse tracks
going to a spot.
He says, "That's where the mouse lives."
These are very practical
bits of information you're giving us here.
(laughter)
How to catch a mouse: spread flour.
You can write a book on that one.
Anyway, then I worked with Silva until 1980, actually,
and then I kind of,
I don't want to do the same thing
over and over again, which is what I was doing there,
even though I was bringing a lot of my own stuff in.
I started something called Super Mind,
and I went over to Jose, and I said, "Jose,"
and Chief, we used to call him chief, I said,
"Chief, I've got something a little different.
"It's called Super Mind, and I'd like to teach it
"to your instructors and your people."
He said, "Well, tell me about it."
So I did, and we had a meeting
with him and a few other people there,
and he said, "Okay, you can do it for my people."
So I did, so I started teaching Super Mind,
which is a combination of hypnosis, what I had learned,
the Huna stuff that I knew,
and it was a melange of different material,
but it took off like a shot, everybody loved it,
and wherever I went, there were three, 400 people.
I went to Greece once, and the room held 500 people,
and 1,200 showed up!
Oh, my god!
You can't even imagine what was going
on in Athens; they had to call the police!
It's interesting because the early '80's
was really a time, it was an explosive time
for what's now becoming a little more mainstream
in terms of understanding there's more to the mind.
The human potential movement had really started taking root.
Yes, the '80s, that's when EST came out,
that's when NLP started,
Van Lauren Griffin,
Bandler, Richard Bandler, and well, whoever.
Grindler.
Grindler, thank you.
I know it like I know my own name:
sometimes it slips out because I use a lot of NLP
in my material.
At any rate, I started teaching Super Mind,
and then I also,
I knew that Jose had, at one time,
been a hypnotist, and I had been a hypnotist,
so I thought, "Let me bring in hypnotism
"into this organization."
So I started something called Hypnovision,
and I was training people to be hypnotists,
and that was the first time that Jose had let
somebody from outside the organization
in with something like that.
I kept going, jumping from one thing to another,
and then the '90s came around,
and I just kept on bringing in new stuff.
As we evolved,
so to speak, I kept learning by teaching.
You know, the teacher learns also,
and I was learning so much,
and then I bumped into quantum mechanics.
Now, I don't know anything about
quantum physics or quantum mechanics.
It all started when I did a lecture
for Edgar Mitchell, the astronaut.
He has an organization in Petaluma, up north,
and I was asked to lecture before
him and the rest of the group,
and I'm very impressed by him, you know.
Yes, lovely man.
Oh, wonderful, one of the sweetest people.
He sure is, yes, I've met him.
Good.
I kind of got into this quantum physics business,
and some of the physicists believe
in an infinity of universes.
So I started studying infinity, that's like--
How do you do that?
That's what I was about to say:
that's like an ant studying Shakespeare.
(laughter)
I mean, you can't, you can't even imagine infinity,
anymore than you can imagine eternity.
You can't.
You know, people think after they die,
they're going to blow on a cloud,
or they're going to have a nice lovely,
well, fine, I believe that, too, but not on a cloud.
But think about doing the same thing for 100 years,
1,000 years, 100,000 years, a million years!
There was an interesting movie
called After Life made by a Japanese independent film crew
that, essentially, that's exactly what they did:
you had to choose the moment
that you most loved in your life,
that was it, forever.
It would be the worst moment of your life.
Oh, absolutely.
So going from that, yes.
So I realized that it's impossible to understand,
but can we make use of it?
See, I like to make use of things.
Everything that I've ever learned,
it has to be useful, and one of the reasons
I was always so very popular as an instructor
is because everything that I taught
was simple and easy to use.
It had to be useful, had to be useful.
It had to be effective.
And effective, yes.
Turned into a resource that other people could use.
Never mind what I can do, can you do it?
And if I can do it, you can do it.
I'm just a plain, ordinary kid from Brooklyn.
Well, I'm not a kid anymore, but I'm still from Brooklyn.
With a massive amount
of amassed knowledge over time.
With some knowledge, exactly.
So this infinity intrigued me.
Now, if it's true infinity, it's endless.
There's no definition of infinity,
and so I've come up with my own definition:
one more, that's infinity.
Whatever you can conceive of, one more.
20 million, one more.
One more, or one more 20 million?
Whatever, one more; it's endless.
That being the case, there are an endless number
of universes and dimensions.
A lot of physicists believe that.
They can't tap into them.
They can validate they exist,
even if they don't know what can be done within them.
Exactly, now a lot of them believe,
the ones that believe in infinity,
that in one of those universes, as an example,
using us here, I'm sitting in your chair,
and you're sitting here, and I'm interviewing you.
In another one, you are the Queen of England.
In another one, you're homeless.
In another one, the year is 3038.
In another one, it's prehistoric.
Whatever you can conceive, is.
In an infinite universe, there is no future,
there is no past, everything is now.
Everything is happening right now, if it's infinity.
Now also, you have a duplicate self,
what is called a doppelgänger.
Doppelgänger is a German word, it means, "double walker."
What it is, is a twin self.
That twin self of yours, who is the Queen of England,
is in fact the Queen of England in that particular dimension
the homeless one is also homeless.
Whatever you can imagine is.
That explains a lot.
Now, God is also infinite,
meaning that God is everywhere,
in everything; God is all.
I like the expression,
when God said, "I am that I am."
What if we put a comma in there and say,
"I am that, I am."
I am that, that, that, that, everything, everything.
Infinity means, literally whatever you can imagine is.
Now that's not my concept, that's a concept of
the physicists, many of the quantum physicists.
Not all of them, but a great many of them.
All of them smarter than me.
What does that mean now?
But what they don't tell you is,
how to tap into that, and that's what I worked on.
They work on the physical part;
that's what physics is, physics is the physical.
I work on the metaphysical.
What is metaphysical?
Well, meta means beyond, so we're going
beyond physics, now, to tap into it.
"I wonder," I thought.
"Could I tap into a doppelgänger of mine
"who is something else?"
Now, did this come about,
again, just kind of looking at where you were,
is this something you had already,
inherently been tapping into from
your early days in meditation, or did this concept
really become full bloom in your 50s, by this time?
When I was teaching Super Mind,
I was playing golf during that time,
I was playing gold with some friends,
and I didn't get to play golf that often,
and I was playing, and it was a hot day.
Usually I'll go 110,
if I broke 100 it was a miracle
playing 18 holes, and it was a hot day,
and I'm sitting there and I'm thinking while we're waiting
to get to the first tee, I'm sitting and I'm meditating.
Now, when you meditate, generally,
you're not thinking of anything,
but it's impossible to think of nothing.
You have to think of something.
So usually, you think of your mantra, which I use Om.
I'm sitting and meditating on Om,
and I'm thinking, "Gee, if only I could be a good golfer,
"just for today."
And then I'm thinking of another golfer, and I said,
"I know what I'm going to do.
"I'm going to take that golfer and slip his body over mine."
Now, I don't know why I thought of that.
This came to me in a meditation.
The golfer I'm thinking of is a golfer named Tony Lema,
goes back a long time.
I remember Tony Lema.
He died some years ago.
We go to the first tee, and I slip Tony's body over my own
and I said, "Okay, Tony, you hit the ball."
And I'm standing, the whole time I'm thinking,
"This is foolish, but I'll give it a try."
And boy, I took a shot, and it went up like a
(laughter)
like it was on a string.
Shocked yourself and your companions.
"Wow, what a shot! Boy, that was lucky!"
Well, you know, even 100 handicap,
if there was such a thing, once in a while,
you're going to get off a good shot.
Well, the first nine, I went around at par, 36,
which is impossible, not possible.
That's professional level.
And my friends are looking at me,
"What's going on?"
I don't know, I've got to test something.
So I'm standing now, close my eyes, like meditation,
I said, "Okay, Tony, you can leave."
And I like, threw him away.
The second nine, I think I had about a 70.
Back to normal, and worse.
Back to my 100!
Well, that was the first time I did anything like that.
I started thinking, "I got to investigate this."
Now I had never heard of,
this is before quantum jumping came about,
this is before I knew anything
about quantum physics or anything,
but I felt something happen, I tapped into something.
I started doing that,
and started teaching other people to do that,
to put the body of another person on and get that energy,
and in the meantime, investigating all that.
Then, when quantum mechanics came about,
(coughs) excuse me,
no, before that, let me back up a bit.
I'm teaching a class in San Diego.
It was a class in creativity,
I used to do classes in creativity.
It was a two weekend class, and now,
I drive in, so I'm staying at a hotel,
and on the second day, somebody says,
"You know, this is interesting,
"but why don't you prove it with yourself?"
I says, "I am creative, I created."
"Yeah, but you just created that to make money."
I said, "No, no, I don't do this for that reason.
"Primarily, I do it to teach people, that's my life."
"Well, be creative at something."
I said, "Well, I don't know, you tell me
"what you want me to be creative at."
"Somebody says, "Play the violin."
I says, "No, no, it can't be that
"because the dexterity is left-brained.
"It's got to be something right-brained
"that doesn't take all that dexterity."
So one thing led to another, and somebody says photography.
I said, "Well, no, I don't know anything about a camera."
"You don't have to know anything about a camera.
"Cameras today, you just point it and shoot."
This is before digital, by the way.
So, I said, all right, I'll take a shot at it.
So, I go into a meditative state that night,
and I'm thinking of this Tony Lema and golfing,
and I'm thinking, "Is there a great photographer
"that I could emulate?"
Not me, I didn't know anything about quantum jumping
at this point,
and I thought, "There's got to be a great photographer.
"What if I was a great photographer."
I'm meditating, and all of a sudden,
I get an impression of a guy with an old-fashioned camera
with the black hood, the velvet over his head.
And I says, "Hey, I think you're me!"
And I'm talking to myself, and I'm thinking,
"Am I going nuts here, or what?"
I says, "Can you give me some advice
"on being a photographer?"
I hear, "Take a lot of pictures."
Well, yeah.
"Take a lot of pictures, anything else?"
"Take a lot of pictures."
Okay, I'm thinking, I'll take a lot of pictures,
maybe one of them will come out.
So I take a lot of pictures, nothing.
Now, this is like Monday, Tuesday,
I've got till the next weekend to come up with some.
To become a genius.
(laughter)
So I go back to the same guy.
I'm quantum jumping, but I don't know it,
I don't realize it.
I see the same guy with his hood, and I say,
"Hey, I took a lot of pictures, but none of them were good!"
"Plant yourself."
"I beg your pardon?"
"Plant myself, what does that mean?"
And I see he goes like this, go away.
So far, I've got take a lot of pictures, and plant yourself.
Seven words.
Well, that didn't work.
In the meantime, I bought a camera, and I got film.
I'm going back to San Diego.
So I go back to San Diego Saturday morning.
This is the second weekend.
It's early, so I go to the marina to take some pictures,
just to be doing something before I check into my hotel.
I drove in early.
So I go to the marina, and I'm crawling around on some rocks
not crawling, I'm walking around on some rocks,
and they're slippery, so I take my feet,
and I slam them down to "plant myself,"
without realizing it, so I won't slip.
When I put my feet down, I realize,
"Gee, I wonder if that's what was meant, plant yourself."
So now, I'm standing in one spot, and I got my camera,
and now, I'm taking a lot of pictures,
planted, without moving, and I take a lot of pictures.
I have them developed, I put them into a 1-hour photography
place that they used to have, and I pick it up,
and that night, I'm laying them all out
on my bed at the hotel,
and instead of having 105 or 110 pictures,
I see it's like a jigsaw puzzle, it's one picture.
And it's the most amazing picture I'd ever seen!
I says, "Wow!"
So I go out and I buy a foam core board and some glue,
and I'm spending, I'm working until about
one o'clock in the morning gluing the picture together,
and I took it to the class the next day,
and I made a big production out of it,
I walk in with the back of the thing, and I said,
"Okay, this is how I was creative with photography."
I flip it around, and it was just,
I mean, they went wild when they saw the pictures.
It was, I've seen it, it's wonderful.
That was the first one.
It's amazing, it's a totally different
view of photography.
Totally, and that was the first time I did it.
Since then, I've taken, well they're all over the place now,
as you see.
I love this work.
So obviously, this came out of somewhere else.
This was not previously being done.
No, no, well, after that, I discovered
that David Hockney was doing something similar.
Okay, but you weren't aware of it when--
And Andy Warhol did something similar.
I wasn't aware of any of this at the time.
They were doing something similar, but not the same.
So this came from the guy with the black--
That came from the "plant yourself," yeah.
Later on, when I started developing quantum jumping,
I started thinking, well I had to jump into another universe
because whatever it is that I want, somebody is doing it,
and that somebody is me in another universe.
Let's talk about that, that leap or that jump
you took from going to Tony Lema
or the photographer, hooded photographer,
to this understanding.
What happened in that gap there?
I went on teaching different things--
I mean, not so much what you're doing,
but in your consciousness, what shifted
to take you into the awareness
you weren't calling in Tony Lema, but you were
calling in some other dimensional aspect of you?
That's when I started my study of infinity,
to study the impossible,
my attempt at studying, let us say.
I just got the idea that whatever you can conceive, is.
Whatever; somewhere.
But we can't, it's like we're in a bubble universe,
as some of the physicists believe.
We're in a bubble universe, and right next to us
is another bubble universe with
the me or you that you want to be,
but you can't get out of the bubble.
How can you get out of your bubble, you can't.
The only way you can do it is mentally.
Mentally, there are no bounds.
Mentally, I can be on the other side of the moon right now,
all I got to do is think,
"Well, it's kind of lonely back here, come back."
You can do anything mentally,
and so, maybe I can tap into something mentally, I thought.
So I said, "Let me visit some doppelgängers."
And I went into a meditative state.
Explain what a doppelgänger is again?
Doppelgänger is a twin self in another dimension.
That's the way I look at a doppelgänger.
A twin self, you might say.
Mentally, I can do that right now.
I can tap into, and as I'm talking to you,
I can be riding a race car, flying a kite,
conducting an orchestra, whatever.
Now, can you bring that information,
let's say you visit a doppelgänger in another universe
who is a trumpet player, a tap dancer, a photog, whatever.
Can you bring that talent
back to this dimension with you?
Obviously, if you could do that,
everybody would be everything.
So there are bounds, we can't do that.
But what we can do is,
bring back the rhythm, the energy.
Let me explain that.
Everybody has a particular rhythm.
Every place has a particular rhythm.
Every culture has a particular rhythm.
That rhythm is an energy force.
That rhythm is what makes a Van Gogh a Van Gogh,
a Picasso a Picasso, a Van Doran a Van Doran,
a Hawking a Hawking, whatever.
There's a certain rhythm and energy that it's like--
Is it fair to call it a vibrational effect?
Well, that's what I was about to get into.
Super Mind, another seminar that I teach,
is based on seven principles.
One of those principles is the principle of vibration.
Another is the principle of rhythm.
Another is the principle of polarity.
All of these things have an effect.
Now, as an example of principle,
of vibrations, it simply states that all things
are in constant, never ending motion.
All things, a piece of lead, the universe,
all meaning all, constantly vibrating, always moving.
You can see that at the molecular level,
at the subatomic, there's always something moving,
molecules, atoms, moving.
So whatever the movement, that motion, that vibration is
will always manifest to the same degree.
That sounds a little bit like gobbledegook,
so let me explain:
the easiest way to explain is in music.
On the physical scale, the note A,
the first note of the musical scale, A, or Ah,
vibrates at a particular octave,
vibrates 880 times a second.
That's A; that's science; that's physics.
If I could move my finger 880 times a second,
you'd hear a hum, it would be a perfect A, okay.
That we know.
Now, when you're sick, when you have a headache,
when you have a whatever,
your vibrations are off, that's all.
Now, let me get back to the A and show you
how and why your vibrations are off.
That 880 is a perfect A.
That's accurate, now I'm guessing.
Let's say you slowed it down to 870,
and you had a guitar, and you're listening,
and you say, "The guitar doesn't sound right.
"It's a little off, you'd better tighten your string."
You might say the guitar had a cold.
Vibrations are off a little bit.
Let's loosen the string a little more
so it's vibrating at 860.
Pneumonia.
It's still recognizable as an A,
but it doesn't sound right.
Loosen it a little more, 850, blang, it died.
The vibrations got so far off that the A died.
Now, you can resurrect an A,
just tighten the string back to 880.
As it is with the guitar string,
so it is with your left shoulder, or any part of your body.
If you have a problem with your left shoulder, basically,
at one particular level, the vibratory level,
it simply means that your vibrations are off.
All that a healer does is raise the vibrations
back to the level.
I've been teaching people healing for many, many years,
decades, actually.
In one of the YouTube things, you'll see me
heal 30 people, boom, just like that, one after the other.
All I'm really doing is just raising my vibration
to the healthy level and transmuting it,
or sending it off, exporting it, if you will,
to the recipient and raising their vibrations
to where they're healed.
Now, I've just explained life itself.
All things are involved with this energy.
Now, getting back to the quantum jumping,
when you go to a foreign place,
foreign being out of this dimension, really foreign now,
you're recognizing some things because you're
recognizing yourself as a great artist, let's say,
which is the latest jump that I took, as an artist.
I was 78 when I took this particular jump.
I'm kind of jumping ahead of the story here,
but it's all linked together.
Time and space are immaterial.
(laughter)
I knew, I'm always experimenting with myself,
and I knew I couldn't paint.
I knew I wasn't an artist, and drawing,
totally beyond me.
I draw a stick figure, like so, that's my drawing art.
I said, "I wonder if I can become an artist by doing this?"
So, let's see.
So I jumped into a me that was an artist,
that was a great artist.
Now, I can't bring back his ability.
But what I can bring back is his rhythm,
that's what I wanted.
I wanted the rhythm to motivate me.
So I got into another me who was an artist,
and this is five years ago, by the way,
this is fairly recent,
and I went out and I bought some brushes and some paint,
and I started painting.
When I look at those paintings now,
I'm almost embarrassed by them,
but they were paintings.
They were recognizable as flowers,
I started painting flowers.
What that rhythm gave me, what that energy gave me
was the motivation to do it in the first place.
Otherwise, I'd never even thought about it.
So I did it, and I was lousy.
But I was painting.
I didn't consider myself an artist.
I started painting,
and when I first started painting,
I painted for six months.
I painted 110 canvases in six months.
I couldn't stop painting.
I had gotten the rhythm of this artist.
I'd never read a book on it, and I didn't want to.
I didn't want to take lessons.
I felt that, if I had any natural ability,
that would take away from it.
So to this day, I've never taken a lesson.
I don't know how to mix paint.
I just mix it till I get the right color, and slap it on.
It had very much an impressionistic
kind of air to it, yes.
That's exactly what I'm looking for.
I want, if I want an exact replica, I'll take a photograph.
I want the impression.
So when you see some of my work there,
that's an impression of the forest.
That's what I want.
I want to elicit an emotion out of you.
Now, what is an emotion?
I like to define things so people
understand what I'm talking about.
An emotion is any thought that has like or dislike to it.
I don't care if you like my stuff,
or if you dislike my stuff--
It's almost like repulsion or attraction,
it's a feeling.
Exactly, that's an emotion.
As long as I elicit an emotion, I've succeeded.
Now, if you're neutral about my stuff, that's no good.
It doesn't have the energy.
I'd rather you hated it than you were neutral about it.
Because, if you hate it, there's something about it
you don't like, so I'm bringing something out in you.
But most people don't hate my stuff,
most people like my stuff.
Now I've started to paint,
now, finally, after five years,
I feel like an artist, and now my works are selling.
I'm asking as much as $12,000 for one of my paintings.
Well, that's fabulous.
This is actually the life's journey of an artist.
This is the same as it happens for any other artist, too.
It doesn't pop, they don't pop in one day,
don't practice, that's it, don't do one or two pieces,
one-hit wonders, and are out of there,
like you, hundreds and hundreds of canvases,
so this is that journey.
Let's go back now, to before you put that suit on,
exactly, as I'm listening to you,
it seems like what's happening is you are,
you're personalizing the vast multidimensional
fields of potential.
Yes.
Everything is possible.
Any one of us is capable of, really anything, really.
To go into the fullest potential.
What you're talking about is putting your face on it,
personalizing that fully realized
or fully potential-ized, whatever the word is,
being out there who does that thing you desire
to be or do, right?
Yes, I believe that anybody,
everybody has these talents,
if you will, hidden within them, buried within them,
some more than others.
It's true, just as some people are more,
let's say are stronger in one sense than another.
We have five senses.
A Michelangelo comes along very seldom.
Michelangelo is very strong in the kinetic sense,
in the tactile sense,
and also in the visualization sense.
He was asked once, "How do you do a David?"
He said, "Well, it's easy.
"I just see him in the block, and I chip away the excess."
I know, it's amazing,
and David just radiates beauty, it's so beautiful.
That's right, he sees it.
Whereas a normal person can go from one to ten,
let's say, in the visual sense,
a Michelangelo is beyond that, he's,
on a scale of one to ten, he's 100.
Let's say the people that would come,
the people that would do the quantum jumping course,
for example, most people are looking to be
the best they can be at their jobs, at their relationships,
maybe as an artist, they're not necessarily
looking to be a Michelangelo, per se,
but they can, what do you see when people
use the methods that you've created
and offer in the quantum jumping course?
What do you see by way of progress,
and over what period of time with the people?
I believe that the, people ask me often
about that, what value?
The big value is in attitude because attitude is everything.
Attitude is what gives you longevity, good health,
and also is what kills you and gives you poor health.
Attitude is everything.
Relationships is very important,
but most people don't know what a relationship is.
All a relationship is, is a mutual filling of needs.
If you get two people that are filling each other's needs,
you got a good relationship.
So when a person wants to enhance their relationship,
you don't ask, "How can I enhance my relationship."
Because that's an abstraction that can't be answered.
You ask, "How can I fill your important needs,
"and how can you fill mine?"
People have a conversation on the wrong subject,
with regard to relationships.
Now, the value of quantum jumping is,
once again, as I say, to bring back
the vibration, the energy or the rhythm,
I like to use the word rhythm
because that's what it truly is.
We're in the desert, now.
This has a different rhythm than the mountains.
You feel it, you could be blindfolded and come here--
And certainly different
than New York City or Brooklyn.
Brooklyn, New York, I love to go to New York,
but I love to leave it, also.
I can't take it more than three or four days,
even though I was born there.
I like the rhythm, people ask me,
"Why do you live in Rancho Mirage?"
They asked Frank Sinatra that same question,
and he said, "Because I like to breathe."
He likes the air out here.
I like the rhythm of the place.
I like it here in the summer, it's hot,
but it's a quiet, easy, easy rhythm.
So you're slotting into
a comfortable rhythm here.
When we're quantum jumping,
just take us into a little,
because we've only got a few minutes left.
I've had so much fun talking with you,
I forgot to ask you some of the other questions.
Let's go into, now, the practical application
of quantum jumping, and what a person
would expect out of that.
The practical is that you attempt things
that you would not ordinarily do.
You're motivated to do things
I talk about art, but not everybody's interested in art.
I wasn't, but I am now, of course.
You may be,
you may want to get out of what you're doing.
You may be working for someone else, let's say,
as an employee, and you want to be an employer.
Also, right now, a lot of people
have lost their jobs, so let's just say you want to,
this is your opportunity, you're unemployed, maybe,
you have a chance to shift your life,
and choose to do something that might be
more in harmony with what you truly are.
Exactly, this takes, you might say,
takes the limitations away from you.
Most people feel limited in some area of their lives.
I'm a good example of that:
I started a whole new field at age,
when I was 80, I decided to go into the internet.
Now, 80 is not a time to learn the internet.
This is a kids' thing.
You've got to be eight, maybe, to start.
No, I know quite a bit about the internet now,
as a matter of fact, the next thing I'll be working on
is a new app for the iPad and the iPhone.
That's my next project.
This is coming from your doppelgänger?
All this is coming from getting the rhythm
of somebody who's already doing this.
Because my doppelgänger is an app expert.
(laughter)
And an internet expert.
I also have other people working with me,
because once you get the motivation to do things,
you find different avenues to different roads
to get to the goal that you're looking for.
So essentially,
what the quantum jumping does,
what I'm hearing you say is, A number one,
you can move past former limitations.
And you can truly, in a very practical, simple way,
start employing these techniques?
You can start employing the techniques immediately.
Immediately.
This is not something that you work at for
ten years.
That's good.
Not that you can't work at it for ten years,
you continually improve.
What's it do to the,
just the sheer fun factor of your life?
To just know that you're not a limited human being anymore
in your own mind?
It opens up everything for you.
But, then again, you discover that
you're not interested in the things you formerly loved.
I live at a golf course.
There's the first tee out that window over there.
I haven't played golf in two years.
Because you're a painter.
It's not that, golf takes five hours.
I don't have five hours to spare!
You're working too hard!
I want to put it into something else.
All I can say, Burt,
is that you are a living, breathing example
of your discoveries throughout your lifetime.
I mean, here you are, people watching are going to say,
"Come on, what product does he use on his hair?"
That's your real hair, this is your real skin,
this is your real life, you're 82 years old,
and you have the energy, inventiveness,
creativity and fun of somebody a quarter your age.
And I'm looking forward to 2011 and 2012
when I'm going to come up with some new stuff.
There you go.
Well, I have not taken the course, yet,
so I actually can't wait to give it a try.
I mean, I meditate, and I love jumping around in meditation,
but I love seeing how you've put this all together,
just to expand my own potential.
Know this: that quantum jumping is really a metaphor.
Some people call it a placebo.
You know something, a lot of placebos work.
Well, they're proven that.
And we're only limited by our own belief that we can.
We're only limited by our imagination,
and we've become a rather unimaginative species
as of late.
My bywords for many years, what you just said:
we're only limited by our imagination.
On that note, thank you so much
for opening your home to us and sharing your time with us.
It was my pleasure.
If you're looking to begin utilizing your
more perfected self, you can go to
mindvalley.com to find out more about quantum jumping.
Burt also has books available on amazon.com.
Along a similar line, you might also enjoy our interviews
with Tom Campbell and Vernon Wolf.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(upbeat music)